index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Teaching numerical methods with IPython notebooks
---

# Teaching numerical methods with IPython notebooks

## Objectives

The goal of this tutorial is to help prepare educators to use IPython
Notebooks in the classroom for teaching numerical methods.  It may also
be useful for teaching other topics.

## Presenters

[David Ketcheson](http://www.davidketcheson.info/), King Abdullah
University of Science and Technology  
[Aron Ahmadia](http://aron.ahmadia.net), U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center

## General Links

[GitHub Page](https://github.com/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/)  
[Installation instructions on etherpad](https://scipy2014.etherpad.mozilla.org/17)  
[Anaconda Installer](http://continuum.io/downloads)  
[IPython Documentation](http://ipython.org/documentation.html)  
[IPython In Depth](https://github.com/ipython/ipython-in-depth)
[SageMathCloud](https://cloud.sagemath.com)
[Wakari](http://wakari.io)

## Notebooks in the Classroom

[HyperPython](http://www.davidketcheson.info/2014/05/28/hyperpython.html)  
[12 Steps to Navier-Stokes](http://lorenabarba.com/blog/cfd-python-12-steps-to-navier-stokes/)  
[AeroPython](http://lorenabarba.com/blog/announcing-aeropython/)  

## Agenda (Monday, July 7)

Time | Topic | Presenter
-----|-------|----------
1:00 | [Introduction and some examples of notebooks](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Introduction.ipynb) | David and Aron
1:15 | Cloud notebook services ([SageMathCloud](https://cloud.sagemath.com), [Wakari](http://wakari.io), [Google Drive/Chrome](https://conference.scipy.org/scipy2014/schedule/presentation/1720/)) | David
1:30 | [Overview of IPython Notebook](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Introducing%20the%20IPython%20Notebook.ipynb) | Aron
2:15 | Break |
2:30 | [Visualization](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/urls/raw.github.com/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/master/Plotting%20in%20the%20notebook.ipynb) | David
2:45 | [Widgets overview](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Exploring%20Numerics%20with%20IPython%20Widgets.ipynb) | Aron
3:00 | Examples: [A concept](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Aliasing.ipynb), [a lesson](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Multigrid.ipynb), [a lab](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/finite_difference_lab.ipynb), [a course](http://www.davidketcheson.info/2014/05/28/hyperpython.html) | David
3:30 | Break |
4:00 | Lessons from Software Carpentry | Aron
4:15 | [Styling](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Styling_notebooks.ipynb) | David
4:30 | Open Panel |

Commit message:

Update schedule with Brian and better links

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Teaching numerical methods with IPython notebooks
---

# Teaching numerical methods with IPython notebooks

## Objectives

The goal of this tutorial is to help prepare educators to use IPython
Notebooks in the classroom for teaching numerical methods.  It may also
be useful for teaching other topics.

## Presenters

[David Ketcheson](http://www.davidketcheson.info/), King Abdullah
University of Science and Technology  
[Aron Ahmadia](http://aron.ahmadia.net), U.S. Army Engineer Research
and Development Center  
[Brian Granger](http://physics.calpoly.edu/content/faculty_pages/bgranger), Cal Poly

## General Links

[GitHub Page](https://github.com/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/)  
[Course Notes and Installation instructions on Etherpad](https://scipy2014.etherpad.mozilla.org/17)  
[Anaconda Installer](http://continuum.io/downloads)  
[IPython Documentation](http://ipython.org/documentation.html)  
[IPython In Depth](https://github.com/ipython/ipython-in-depth)
[SageMathCloud](https://cloud.sagemath.com)
[Wakari](http://wakari.io)

## Notebooks in the Classroom

[HyperPython](http://www.davidketcheson.info/2014/05/28/hyperpython.html)  
[12 Steps to Navier-Stokes](http://lorenabarba.com/blog/cfd-python-12-steps-to-navier-stokes/)  
[AeroPython](http://lorenabarba.com/blog/announcing-aeropython/)  

## Agenda (Monday, July 7)

Time | Topic | Presenter
-----|-------|----------
1:00 | [Introduction and some examples of notebooks](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Introduction.ipynb) | David
1:15 | Cloud notebook services ([SageMathCloud](https://cloud.sagemath.com), [Wakari](http://wakari.io), [Google Drive/Chrome](https://conference.scipy.org/scipy2014/schedule/presentation/1720/)) | David
1:30 | [Overview of IPython Notebook](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Introducing%20the%20IPython%20Notebook.ipynb) | Aron
2:15 | Break |
2:30 | [Visualization](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/urls/raw.github.com/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/master/Plotting%20in%20the%20notebook.ipynb) | David
2:45 |
[Widgets overview](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Exploring%20Numerics%20with%20IPython%20Widgets.ipynb)
| Brian
3:00 | Examples: [A concept](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Aliasing.ipynb), [a lesson](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Multigrid.ipynb), [a lab](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/finite_difference_lab.ipynb), [a course](http://www.davidketcheson.info/2014/05/28/hyperpython.html) | David
3:30 | Break |
4:00 | Lessons from Software Carpentry | Aron
4:15 | [Styling](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/ketch/teaching-numerics-with-notebooks/blob/master/Styling_notebooks.ipynb) | David
4:30 | Open Panel |
